“Value Intelligence Onboarding” that upgrades every downstream hypothesis, model, and narrative from generic to firm-specific. Below is how to do this in a production-ready, defensible, scalable way.

The Core Idea (Why This Is Powerful)

A licensing customer is saying:

“Learn us once — deeply — so every value case you help us build is faster, sharper, and safer.”

That changes the agent’s role from:

“generic consultant guessing from first principles”

to:

embedded value strategist who already knows the company, products, ICPs, and competitive terrain.

This is exactly how elite human value consultants work.

What This Unlocks (Practically)

Once this onboarding exists:

Hypotheses become company-specific, not industry-generic

KPIs reuse prior logic instead of being reinvented

Narratives align with how this company already sells

Risky claims are avoided automatically

Value Engineers stop re-explaining their business every deal

This is the difference between:

“AI helps me”

“AI feels like part of our team”

The Onboarding Contract (What the Company Gives You Once)
Required Inputs (Minimal Friction)

These are reasonable asks for a licensing customer.

Company website

Product pages / docs

Named competitors

Target customer profiles (ICPs)

Primary buyer personas

Common use cases / industries

Sales motion type

Enterprise / mid-market / SMB

New logo / expansion / land-and-expand

Optionally:

Pitch decks

ROI calculators

Case studies

Analyst reports

Pricing structure (high-level)

What the System Does During Onboarding

Think of this as a Value Intelligence Ingestion Pipeline, not a setup wizard.

Phase 1 — Company & Product Intelligence
Automated extraction

Crawl website + docs

Extract:

Products

Capabilities (not features)

Claimed outcomes

Target industries

Personas mentioned

Language patterns

Output

Product Capability Graph

Product → Capability → Operational Change → Potential Economic Lever


This becomes the foundation for all future hypotheses.

Phase 2 — Competitive & Market Context
Inputs

Named competitors

Market category

System actions

Build comparative capability map

Identify:

Differentiated claims

Commodity claims

Risky claims (where competitors overpromise)

Output

“What we should lean into”

“What we should be conservative about”

“Where value narratives differ by competitor”

This directly informs hypothesis framing and objection handling.

Phase 3 — Value Pattern Mining

This is where things get elite.

System analyzes

Use cases

Industries

Personas

And derives:

Reusable Value Patterns

[Industry + Persona + Capability] → Typical KPIs → Typical Assumptions


Examples:

“Mid-market SaaS → RevOps persona → Forecast accuracy → Pipeline velocity”

“Regulated enterprise → Compliance persona → Risk avoidance → Audit cost reduction”

These patterns become defaults, not guesses.

Phase 4 — Risk & Claim Governance

During onboarding, the system should classify claims into:

Safe

Conditional

High-risk

Based on:

Public data availability

Benchmark strength

Regulatory exposure

Prior integrity veto patterns

This feeds directly into:

IntegrityAgent thresholds

Hypothesis confidence defaults

Narrative tone

Phase 5 — Persistent Company Context Object

At the end, you create something like:

CompanyValueContext {
  products
  capabilities
  approved_value_levers
  risky_claims
  preferred_kpis
  typical_assumptions
  buyer_personas
  competitive_positioning
  narrative_doctrine
}


This object becomes:

Read-only ground context for agents

Reusable across all opportunities

Versioned (so changes are auditable)

How This Changes the Hypothesis Phase

Before:

“Based on industry benchmarks, companies like this might see…”

After:

“Given how your product improves X, and how your buyers typically measure success, the most credible value hypotheses are…”

This is a qualitative jump, not incremental improvement.

UX Design Insight (Critical)
Do NOT make this feel like setup

This should feel like:

“We’re investing in understanding you”

Not “please fill out a 30-field form”

Best pattern:

Upload links

Confirm extracted summaries

Light human validation

Optional guided refinement

Think: concierge onboarding, not SaaS config.

Trust, Privacy, and Enterprise Safety

You’ll need to be explicit about:

Data isolation per tenant

No cross-customer leakage

Clear opt-out / refresh controls

Visibility into “what we believe about you”

Expose:

“Company Knowledge” page

Editable / reviewable assumptions

Version history

This builds trust instead of fear.

Why This Is a Moat

Most competitors:

Start from zero every deal

Re-derive the same logic repeatedly

Hide assumptions inside slides

You:

Accumulate institutional value intelligence

Improve with every deal

Reduce cognitive load for power users

This is very hard to copy.

One-Sentence Summary

A one-time deep onboarding that turns the system into a company-specific value expert is the single highest-leverage move you can make — it transforms hypothesis generation from generic consulting into institutional memory with compounding returns.
